>> Estelle: So CSS stands for
Cascading Style Sheets.
It does not stand for cascading shit show.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Estelle: And
by the end of this two-day session,
hopefully, you'll agree with me on that.
And nor does it stand for
California style sheets.
>> Estelle: So the deck that I had,
I'm just gonna start the snowflakes again.
Basically all I did was put in the eyes
because they were a small character.
And then I had the div of class snowman,
and that made the whole thing work.
So during this talk we're not gonna
actually talk about this deck
because this deck was retired in 2012.
Cuz you can only look at snowflakes for so
long before you get sick of snowflakes.
And I've been in Minneapolis for
a few hours and I'm sick of snowflakes.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Estelle: But
CSS, with selectors,
you can basically target anything, and
with CSS you can make
those snowflakes random.
They look random, right?
They're rotating, they're dropping,
they're spinning,
they're moving naturally down the page.
That's all done with CSS.
So CSS is the presentation
layer of the web.
There's a lot of people who
talk about putting JS, or
CSS in their JS, they're all wrong.
Not that I have an opinion on it,
they're just wrong, it's not an opinion,
it's just a fact.
Because JavaScript is supposed to be for
the behavior.
So is animation a behavior,
or is it a presentation?
It is actually a presentation
because there's no information being
garnered from it, and
there's nothing you can do with it.
And then content, as you see here,
I didn't even need to put the id
of flakes or the class of snowman.
I could have targeted this whole
thing without classes or ids.
You can use CSS no matter
what your HTML is like.
>> Estelle: There's a few
ways to include your CSS.
You can do an external style sheet.
Generally this is considered
the best way to include your CSS.
If you wanna improve performance and
your CSS is minimal, and
hopefully I will teach you how to
make minimal CSS instead of long CSS.
You can improve performance by
putting some of you CSS in the style
block in a head of your page because
your CSS, your external CSS and
your internal CSS is blocking, it will
not present until your CSS is downloaded.
So if it's already downloaded, your CSS,
instead of having to make another HTTP
request, that could help
improve first load.
But if you have to download the CSS
every single time you change pages,
that is bad for performance.
So you have to weigh it, you could put
a little bit of CSS on your home page for
that first load, but
always have an external style sheet if you
have a multi-page website
because you wanna cache that.
And then you can do inline styles
like the one on the bottom.
You'd be wrong to do that.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Estelle: Not that I
have an opinion on it.
A lot of times you'll see this, and
it will be because it was
put in with JavaScript.
You'll see it actually in my decks because
I was in the middle of something and
I'm like, let me just add this and
test it and I forgot to pull it out.
But my deck is not a production-ready
website, it is a PowerPoint presentation.
And my decks are much smaller than any
PowerPoint presentation you will ever see
because it is done purely in CSS,
HTML, and JavaScript.
In fact, the only images that
you've seen so far in this whole
deck are the pictures of my book covers,
everything else is just purely CSS.
>> Estelle: So
why use external style sheets?
It allows for
reusability cuz you can cache it.
You can maintain your CSS if it's on one
spot, if it's in every different page,
you have to actually edit.
If it's in every individual p element,
like we saw on that inline,
you'll have to maintain that.
If it's in your Java Script,
>> Estelle: How do you maintain?
I don't know how to maintain CSS in
JavaScript cuz you have to keep going back
to your JavaScript when you wanna
change a color or something.
With CSS the changes are instantaneous,
and
we'll see that a lot during our deck
because we are gonna be editing a lot
of CSS right in the header of a document
and it will load immediately.
And I've no clue what interchangeable
presentation layer is cuz I wrote this
a few weeks ago and
I don't remember what that meant.
Okay, so here is the CSS thing
code that I had wanted to show.
And that was the exact same HTML, this
site has the exact same HTML as this site.
Do those two look like the same pages?
The content is the exact same,
the markup is the exact same.
It's only the presentation
file that is different.
And that is why using
external CSS style sheets, or
just using CSS in general allows you to
do the look and feel that you so choose.